#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This report documents how measurements of wind are made from the NSF/NCAR
 Gulfstream V research aircraft (hereafter, GV) and provides a characterization
 of the uncertainty associated with those measurements.
 The characterization applies to the system as it existed in 2014, in particular
 as it operated in the DEEPWAVE research project flown from New Zealand
 in June-July 2014.
 Key aspects influencing the uncertainty in the measurements as characterized
 here are the presence of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

OmniSTAR
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 GPS measurements, providing measurements of the velocity of the aircraft
 relative to the earth, a calibration of airspeed provided by the Laser
 Air Motion Sensor (Cooper et al., 2014), and a newly developed all-weather
 wind sensor or 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

gust pod
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 employing a Rosemount 858 probe mounted under the wing of the GV.
 These complemented the standard wind-sensing system comprised of a Honeywell
 XXX inertial reference unit, normal GPS measurements, and a gust-sensing
 system based on pressure ports in the nose radome.
 The results obtained here do not necessarily apply to measurements from
 earlier projects when not all these components were available.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:Components"

\end_inset

 describes the components of the wind-measuring system in more detail, and
 Section 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:Calibrations"

\end_inset

 summarizes how the measurements have been calibrated, tested, and intercompared.
 Some related studies affecting the measurements are then presented in the
 next sections.
 This information all provides the basis for Section
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:Uncertainty-components"

\end_inset

, where the contributions to uncertainty from various sources are tabulabed
 and where there is a discussion of the basis for each estimate contributing
 to uncertainty in the measured wind.
 This report then concludes with a summary characterizing the overall uncertaint
y and the separate systematic and random components included in that uncertainty.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The reference program for this document can be found on NCAR/EOL computer
 space (e.g., tikal.eol.ucar.edu) in the directory /h/eol/cooperw/RStudio/DEEPWAVE/Wi
ndUncertainty and in GitHub where the repository is named 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "https://github.com/WilliamCooper/WindUncertainty.git"
target "https://github.com/WilliamCooper/WindUncertainty.git"

\end_inset

.
 The main program is WindUncertainty.Rnw; other files in those repositories
 with suffixes .Rnw are sections in this report and are linked to the main
 program.
 Normal usage is to run this main program within 
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

RStudio
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 to execute the contained R code and also, via 
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

knitr,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 to generate this text document from 
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

LaTeX
\end_layout

\end_inset

 statements embedded in those files.
 An R package 'Ranadu' is used; it resides on GitHub as 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "https://github.com/WilliamCooper/Ranadu.git"
target "https://github.com/WilliamCooper/Ranadu.git"

\end_inset

.
 The data used reside in NCAR/EOL project archives and, in subsetted form,
 are archived in the directory /h/eol/cooperw/STudio/DEEPWAVE/WindUncertainty
 as R data files, with names ending in 
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

Rdata.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 Those files are too large to be appropriate for GitHub but can be provided
 from the NCAR/EOL computers.
 It is thus possible to reproduce this document from archived data and to
 repeat the included analyses with new data as needed.
 This document thus attempts to be 
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

reproducible research
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 as that term is used by the author of knitr.
 References for knitr and the analysis packages in R are included in the
 Acknowledgements and References sections.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
